Flachbettfilmhalter/description_minox_fb.md, before:

Scan 9.2 mm Minox “spy camera” film with a standard transparency film scanner.


With this you can scan up totwo 11 image  Minox film strips at once by putting them into the holder and that into the hole for standard 35 mm negative film strips.

Put the film strips into the holder with the shiny carrier side down, towards the sensor and the emulsion side up. When looking at the pictures they should appear mirrorered. Then lock them in place with the clamp, and scan them.

There are four versions. The 35 mm is wide enough to scan two Minox strips side by side, but i found the Epson software for my scanner was a bit of a PIA when using the two strip holder. There are also versions for standard 10 picture strips and for 11 picture strips


The Pont du Gard photo was scanned with this double film holder. You can’t expect too high resolution from a 9.2 mm film strip, but the picture is 46 years old, too. The scanner software did a great job with the old material missing the orange tint of C-41 films.



How to print:

Easy print. Make sure you have good bed adhesion. Don’t use a brim. Maybe a raft. Check the number of perimeters on he clamp. It should be 2 for a standard 0.4 mm nozzle.

raft: yes
not at 45°
layer: check the number of perimeters

Post-processing:

This may need a bit of filing or sanding. The long parts of the clamps must be straight, not bend inwards.


How designed:

github

Commit message:

Work on some descriptions. The Minox is a spy camera, there are receipts, so no need for scare quotes.

Flachbettfilmhalter/description_minox_fb.md, after:



Film holder to scan 9.2 mm [Minox](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minox) spy camera¹ film with a standard flatbed scanner with a transperancy unit.

Put the film strips into the holder, carrier down, emulsion up, secure them in place with the clamp, put the whole holder into the gap of the standard 135 (35 mm) film holder on the scanner glass and scan you pictures.

There are four versions. The 35 mm is wide enough to scan two Minox strips side by side, but i found the Epson software for my scanner was a bit of a PIA when using the two strip holder. There are two different lengths versions. The originial Minox processing returned four 10 picture strips, but i had some slightly longer strips and made a longer holder for them.

The Pont du Gard photo was scanned with this double film holder. You can’t expect too high resolution from a 9.2 mm film strip, but the picture is 46 years old, too. The scanner software did a great job with the old material missing the orange tint of C-41 films.

I ended up scanning most of the old Minox films i inherited with my film scanner, using my [Reflecta ProScan Minox film holder]()


How to print:

Easy print. Make sure you have good bed adhesion. Don’t use a brim. Maybe a raft. Check the number of perimeters on he clamp. It should be 2 for a standard 0.4 mm nozzle.

raft: yes
not at 45°
layer: check the number of perimeters

Post-processing:

This may need a bit of filing or sanding. The long parts of the clamps must be straight, not bend inwards.


How designed:

There is some design history available at my [github repo](https://github.com/ospalh/3d-printing/tree/develop/Flachbettfilmhalter).

-----
¹ The Americans bought some for the CIA before there was even a CIA. That is, for the OSS.
