Rudolf_Koch_Probedruck/description_en.md, before:

What to do, when you have told all your friends an colleagues that you own a 3D printer, and now they’re all asking you for free samples?

Something like this happened to the German font designer and type artist
[Rudolf Koch](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rudolf_Koch_(Schriftk%C3%BCnstler)). (Link in German) He had a postcard ready that he send as a reply to anyone who asked for a sample of his art.

This is {a literal,an idiomatic} translation of that postcard. The original was a print made off hand-drawn calligraphy. This is done in a font ſimilar to the original deſign, and of a ﬅyle, “[Schwabacher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schwabacher)”, that Koch was quite fond of.

There are three variants:
* `Rudolf Koch’s reply, {literal,idiomatic}, unconnected.stl`: A quick print that falls apart when you remove it from the print plate. Sort-of in line with the text.
* `Rudolf Koch’s reply, {literal,idiomatic}, negative.stl`: The text as a negative. You can use filament changes or the [nail polish and acetone](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4iX6x2MLhH0&index=37&list=PLVybj_7VBHRJOl00qLjwn9CM-sUnjPHvR)- trick¹.
* `Rudolf Koch’s reply, {literal,idiomatic}, positive.stl`: For filament change when printing.




Safety note:
¹ Aceton isn’t really poisonous. Nonetheless you should open the window and wear (latex) gloves, as the fumes make you drowsy and the liquid dries out the skin.

Commit message:

escalated the safety warning: Read a MSDS!

Rudolf_Koch_Probedruck/description_en.md, after:

What to do, when you have told all your friends an colleagues that you own a 3D printer, and now they’re all asking you for free samples?

Something like this happened to the German font designer and type artist
[Rudolf Koch](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rudolf_Koch_(Schriftk%C3%BCnstler)). (Link in German) He had a postcard ready that he send as a reply to anyone who asked for a sample of his art.

This is {a literal,an idiomatic} translation of that postcard. The original was a print made off hand-drawn calligraphy. This is done in a font ſimilar to the original deſign, and of a ﬅyle, “[Schwabacher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schwabacher)”, that Koch was quite fond of.

There are three variants:
* `Rudolf Koch’s reply, {literal,idiomatic}, unconnected.stl`: A quick print that falls apart when you remove it from the print plate. Sort-of in line with the text.
* `Rudolf Koch’s reply, {literal,idiomatic}, negative.stl`: The text as a negative. You can use filament changes or the [nail polish and acetone](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4iX6x2MLhH0&index=37&list=PLVybj_7VBHRJOl00qLjwn9CM-sUnjPHvR)- trick¹.
* `Rudolf Koch’s reply, {literal,idiomatic}, positive.stl`: For filament change when printing.




Safety note:
¹ Aceton isn’t too dangerous, bot not harmless either. Open a window and wear gloves and safety goggles or a face shield. Read a typical [MSDS](http://physics.utsa.edu/memslab/MSDS/Acetone.pdf).
