ProScan Filmhalter/description.md, before:

Reflecta ProScan Minox film holder

A film strip holder to scan Minox “spy camera” film with a [Reflecta ProScan 10T](https://reflecta.de/en/products/detail/~id.734~nm.69/reflecta-ProScan-10T.html) cheap-compared-to-drum-scanners film scanner i own. I think the predecessor, the ProScan 7200 uses the same holders.

This uses eight tiny 1 mm high × 2.4 mm ⌀ neodymium magnets to hold shut. If you have other sizes lying around you can modify the file in OpenSCAD.

You can use the customizer to change the overall size, and the size of the magnets. With a bit of luck it will then work with other film scanners. Make sure to subtract a bit of clearance from the measured size of your original holder. When you need a mallet to go from one picture to the next the thing is too big.

There are versions for other film sizes that i plan to publish soon.

##How to print

Use black to reduce stray light. PLA is fine, print settings aren’t too important. No falsework required. Warping might be a problem, so use a brim or raft if you have to.


## Post-printing

This needs quite a bit of deburring, filing and sanding.


### Glueing in the magnets

Glueing in the magnets was surprisingly tricky. They tend to fly through the air towards any piece of iron and to flip over all the time. I came up with this procedure.

#### Tools

* The eight magnets
* The holder and clamp
* Magnetic surface to store stacks of magnets. A “copper” (iron) coin like 1, 2 or 5 eurocent works fine
* Eight M3 or smaller bolts or similar iron rods
* Eight small (c. 1 cm × 5 cm) pieces of paper
* Pens, to mark metal surfaces and paper
* Super glue
* Latex or similar gloves
* Other protective materials. Newspaper for the table, face shield &c.

#### Procedure

* Make a stack out of the magnets on the coin
* Mark the top side of each magnet with a pen and form a second stack of marked magnets. This is to mark the same pole on all the magnets.
* Mark one side of all the pieces of paper
* Take one magnet and place it on the table alone
* Take a piece of paper and place it on top of the magnet, with the marked side up or down to match the magnet
* Take a bolt and put it on the magnet, clamping the paper
* Do this for the other seven magnets, too.
* Make sure the bolt-magnets don’t get too close to each other
* Make sure four have the mark up and four the mark down, both on the magnet and on the paper
* Don the gloves, open a window
* Take the holder and the four magnets with the mark up
* Festina lente
* For each, put a bit of glue into the magnet depression
* Re-seal the glue container
* Take the bolt with the magnet and put the magnet into the hole
* Hold down the paper and remove the bolt
* Remove the paper
* Repeat for the clamp and the magnets facing the other way


## How designed

First i looked at shred’s [110 film holder](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1328672) for plustek scanners. Firt change the outer size to “Reflecta”, scan my stack of 110 films, than change the film size and scan the Minox, but started over from scratch, anyway.

I briefly experimented with a hinge (based on rohinosling’s  [parametric hinge](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2187167)) but i had too much problems breaking them free. (The original Reflecta film holders do have a hinge.)

For a while i had planned to bury the magnets. Pause the print, put them in, let them be covered by PLA. The putting in worked OK, but i later found them on the steel extruder carrier. They had leaped up when a big iron mass passed by, foiling this plan.

There was also a version with thin bars to separate the images, but as the spacing of them on the Minox films i have is so irregualr i dropped that. See the 110 and 126 versions.

There is some design history available at my [github repo](https://github.com/ospalh/3d-printing/tree/develop/ProScan Filmhalter).

Commit message:

Yes, do the “file” pun.

ProScan Filmhalter/description.md, after:

Reflecta ProScan Minox film holder

A film strip holder to scan Minox “spy camera” film with a [Reflecta ProScan 10T](https://reflecta.de/en/products/detail/~id.734~nm.69/reflecta-ProScan-10T.html) cheap-compared-to-drum-scanners film scanner i own. I think the predecessor, the ProScan 7200 uses the same holders.

This uses eight tiny 1 mm high × 2.4 mm ⌀ neodymium magnets to hold shut. If you have other sizes lying around you can modify the file in OpenSCAD.

You can use the customizer to change the overall size, and the size of the magnets. With a bit of luck it will then work with other film scanners. Make sure to subtract a bit of clearance from the measured size of your original holder. When you need a mallet to go from one picture to the next the thing is too big.

There are versions for other film sizes that i plan to publish soon.

##How to print

Use black to reduce stray light. PLA is fine, print settings aren’t too important. No falsework required. Warping might be a problem, so use a brim or raft if you have to.


## Post-printing

This needs quite a bit of deburring and sanding. Also, a bit of filing before you can scan your negatives and file them again.


### Glueing in the magnets

Glueing in the magnets was surprisingly tricky. They tend to fly through the air towards any piece of iron and to flip over all the time. I came up with this procedure.

#### Tools

* The eight magnets
* The holder and clamp
* Magnetic surface to store stacks of magnets. A “copper” (iron) coin like 1, 2 or 5 eurocent works fine
* Eight M3 or smaller bolts or similar iron rods
* Eight small (c. 1 cm × 5 cm) pieces of paper
* Pens, to mark metal surfaces and paper
* Super glue
* Latex or similar gloves
* Other protective materials. Newspaper for the table, face shield &c.

#### Procedure

* Make a stack out of the magnets on the coin
* Mark the top side of each magnet with a pen and form a second stack of marked magnets. This is to mark the same pole on all the magnets.
* Mark one side of all the pieces of paper
* Take one magnet and place it on the table alone
* Take a piece of paper and place it on top of the magnet, with the marked side up or down to match the magnet
* Take a bolt and put it on the magnet, clamping the paper
* Do this for the other seven magnets, too.
* Make sure the bolt-magnets don’t get too close to each other
* Make sure four have the mark up and four the mark down, both on the magnet and on the paper
* Don the gloves, open a window
* Take the holder and the four magnets with the mark up
* Festina lente
* For each, put a bit of glue into the magnet depression
* Re-seal the glue container
* Take the bolt with the magnet and put the magnet into the hole
* Hold down the paper and remove the bolt
* Remove the paper
* Repeat for the clamp and the magnets facing the other way


## How designed

First i looked at shred’s [110 film holder](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1328672) for plustek scanners. Firt change the outer size to “Reflecta”, scan my stack of 110 films, than change the film size and scan the Minox, but started over from scratch, anyway.

I briefly experimented with a hinge (based on rohinosling’s  [parametric hinge](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2187167)) but i had too much problems breaking them free. (The original Reflecta film holders do have a hinge.)

For a while i had planned to bury the magnets. Pause the print, put them in, let them be covered by PLA. The putting in worked OK, but i later found them on the steel extruder carrier. They had leaped up when a big iron mass passed by, foiling this plan.

There was also a version with thin bars to separate the images, but as the spacing of them on the Minox films i have is so irregualr i dropped that. See the 110 and 126 versions.

There is some design history available at my [github repo](https://github.com/ospalh/3d-printing/tree/develop/ProScan Filmhalter).
