Damestein/description.md, before:

Yet another draughts piece. This one should work nicely with 42 mm squares on the board.

This includes a token to mark a king (dame, promoted piece). Either use two tone printing to get some contrast for the tokens, or use 10 eurocent coins. The recess is sized for those.

There is also a variant without the recess, for X Men’s Morris.¹

## Print settings

Print settings are mostly uncritical. I think 15 % infill and just three top layers works better for a flat and wide thing like this than 0 or 5 % infill and many (6) top layers.

The symbols’ extrusion height is intended for 200 µm layer height.

Print wlog 1.6 mm of the white king’s token in white and change to black for the ⛁ symbol.

## How

There is some design history available at my [github repo](https://github.com/ospalh/3d-printing/tree/develop/Damestein). I started with an annular design, but didn’t really like that. There are also versions with a bigger hole and markings on the piece.

The diameter is 30 mm, for other sizes use OpenSCAD and create your own verison. If you want the version with the markings, you should get the Symbola font. GIYF.

---
¹I won’t stop you from using that piece for draughts and stacking two of them for a king, if you think that is a better idea then my tokens.

Commit message:

more text for the drafts stone

Damestein/description.md, after:

Yet another checkers (drafts¹) piece. This one should work nicely with 42 mm squares on the board.

This includes a token to mark a king (dame, promoted piece). Either use two tone printing to get some contrast for the tokens, or use 10 eurocent coins. The recess is sized for those.

There is also a variant without the recess, for X Men’s Morris.²

The board in the picturesi s the [puzzle chess board](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1505544), scaled to get 42 mm squares.

## Print settings

Print settings are mostly uncritical. I think 15 % infill and just three top layers works better for a flat and wide thing like this than 0 or 5 % infill and many (6) top layers.

The symbols’ extrusion hight is intended for 200 µm layer hight.

Print wlog 1.6 mm of the white king’s token in white and change to black for the ⛁ symbol.

Also make sure yu have enuf contrast between the pieces and the board. See the pictures for how *not* to do it.

## How

There is some design history available at my [github repo](https://github.com/ospalh/3d-printing/tree/develop/Damestein). I started with an annular design, but didn’t really like that. There are also versions with a bigger hole and markings on the piece.

The diameter is 30 mm, for other sizes use OpenSCAD and create yur own verison. If yu want the version with the markings, yu should get the Symbola font. GIYF.

---
¹“ugh” is a really daught, i mean, daft way to spell an “f” sound i won’t stand for. See the “Handbook of Simplified Spelling”.
²I won’t stop yu from using that piece for drafts and stacking two of them for a king, if yu think that is a better idea then my tokens.
